# Node.js Foundation Web Server Frameworks Team Meeting 2020-01-24

## Links

* **Recording**:  
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/issues/26
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jsD8nDUyRvk4FrghWRHBptOvoXX4CDdlOC2vsigzGFs/edit?usp=sharing

## Present

* Peter Marton (@hekike), Restify
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Frederic Charette (@fed135)
* Damon Perron Laurin
* Robert Nagy (@ronag)
* Jean Burellier (@sheplu)
* Doug Wilson, Express
* Ethan Arrowood (@Ethan-Arrowood)
* Glen Goodwin (@arei)
* Guilherme Hermeto
* Jozef Flakus (@JozefFlakus)
* Raymond Feng
* Miroslav Bajtos (@bajtos), LoopBack
* Tomas Della Vedova (@delvedor), Fastify
* Gireesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)
* Wes Todd, Express (@wesleytodd)

## Agenda

* 1. Review Governance https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/issues/1
 * Consensus needs 50% of the members
 * Gui: Can we have consensus on the GitHub issue or does it require a meeting?
 * Michael: In my opinion GH is okay. Key is transparency, for example, if a PR is open for like 48 hours it can be merged. In my opinion, we shouldn’t aim for 50% consensus, more we should look if everyone is okay and nobody speaks up against it.
 * Lot’s of people on the list today, probably 50% won’t shop up every time
 * Robert: So basically consensus on GH and discuss on this meeting?
 * Michael: yes, IMHO
 * Gui: what is the process for diagnostics WG?
 * Peter: transparency over rules (basically what Michael described)
 * Peter: is there any Foundation guideline? It looks inefficient to figure this out per every WG
 * Michael: default template: https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/blob/master/BasePolicies/Governance.md, if there is objection -> vote
 * Robert: how is the “default one” different from the one in the repo?
 * Gui: I think current one says the meeting requires 50% on the meetings
 * Michael: I think yes that’s what we should remove because 50% yes doesn’t mean we should ignore other 50%’s opinion
 * Ethan: how about proposing change on GH and let’s discuss it on next meeting
 * Glen: we could use labels to highlight what needs a consensus (suggest “seeking consensus”)
 * Michael: any volunteer to submit that PR?
 * Gui: I can do it
 * Wess: we don’t need to vote if we are not making critical change. At package maintenance group we propose best practices we are not takin control. I feel that will be the case here as well.
 * Jozef: what is the avg. attendee number for WGs? I see it’s 50% for this one today.
 * Michael: my experience is that it starts with more people than it gets less. Also, timezones cuts numbers. Not everyone can make ti every meeting. Roughly 25-50%
 * Wes: that’s why I believe consensus should happen on GH issues
 * Wes: I’ll make more comments offline...


* 2. Joining https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/pull/4
 * Wess: Myles proposed to vote about new members. I think we can be a little bit less process heavy about it. 
 * Michael: after a couple of meeting attendance we can add them to the GH team
 * Wess: if we are not adding them to the Gh team, they are not getting the @ notification like meetings
 * Gui: maybe the meeting is the attendance?
 * Wess: some people are active but don’t like meetings
 * Michael: let’s just once the PR approved, let’s just add them to the team
 * Wess: we can just purge the list when people are inactive
 * Michael: we can just open an issue asking people if they plan to be active with a reasonable timeline and clean up the list based on responses
 * Gui: should we add it to the governance?
 * Michael: yes
 * Action Item: Gui can do it


* Define Scope https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/issues/18
 * Ethan: I see couple of questions here.
 * Glen: (paraphrased) My goal in introducing this agenda item was to foster a little more discussion around the purpose and scope of this team and what we are trying to accomplish.  As Wes noted in the issue, we don’t specifically want to outline every feature that qualifies what is or isn’t a framework, but a more generalized review of the objectives/goals for the team.
 * Wes: Couple of ideas: see https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/blob/master/README.md#goals
 * We should create a label for every goal
 * Michael: in this repo or node core?
 * this repo
 * Michael: I could see the usefulness of a web framework label in node core
 * Any difference as using GH team as reviewer or pinging?
 * Michael: you can search labels
 * Michael: there was a conversation earlier about diagnostics - web frameworks integration. Would it be included?
 * Hmm, this is the inverse, more like core integration for web frameworks
 * Goal wording will be modified to include it
 * Next goal: Improve collaboration among framework authors
 * Glen: reaching out to framework owners could be a way to go
 * Wes: I tried, and everyone responses, but not everyone participated
 * Gui: we should aim for collaboration from the community but that shouldn’t be the goal
 * Ethan next goal
 * Wes: wee see fragmentations with the rise of new frameworks
 * Wes: I’d like to see collaboration on best practices, different implementations are healthy and we need them, but not a competition
 * Ethan: should we take low-level modules into this WGs? I believe not because we would bring imbalance to the field and force other modules to use them. It could be a blocker for innovation.
 * Notes stopped at 4PM UTC….

(Resuming notes roughly)
* Discussing what are non goals of the team
* Major point is gatekeeping
* Refrain from lists of frameworks or language that implies lists
* Idea discussed about how to indicate team member details (i.e. whos a maintainer, reasons for being apart of the group)
* Make a members.md instead of including this in the README (Wes will follow up on a member list with more details than name and github handle)
* Concluding agenda
* Discussing next meetings, future meetings, general schedule
* Wes: 2 meetings times, what do we see the best methodology for the biggest turn out here?
* Guil: We should uses consensus through github issue/pr for this matter due to meeting time being over
* Wes: will follow up with scheduling issue. How do we get more people to respond to doodle?
* Guil: give everyone 48hours
* Michael: for this matter we should give longer time. Maybe a week
* Michael: Use an excel spreadsheet like TSC does so we can have a more comprehensive list
* Wes: Agrees, will work on this for the next meeting time planning. Will take this on and follow up. Goal for next meeting is February. 
* 

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

TBD in mind-late feb

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.



