# Node.js Foundation Web Server Frameworks Team Meeting 2020-04-30

## Links

* **Recording**:  
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/issues/40

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Matteo Collina (@mcollina)
* Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
* Ethan Arrowood (@ethan-arrowood)
* Tomas Della Vedova (@delvedor)
* Robert Nagy (@ronag)
* Chris Russell

## Agenda

* http: response does not emit error on premature close #41
  * Change will affect anyone using raw http
  * Want to make sure major frameworks are prepared for this change
  * if this lands it would be a major change landing in Node 15
  * This would make express core v4 not able to run on Node 15, which should be okay since v4 should be EOL by then
  * Matteo’s concern: having to set multiple error handlers (one for request, one for response). 
  * It is an unfortunate coupling of those two. 
  * It can be left as is, but it can be brittle for generic streams
  * @ronag will make a pr for this and we can continue discussion later
  * Can we make this feature opt-in?
  * Maybe only throw error if user is watching for it so we don’t crash peoples program

* Improved set header and set cookie experience #32
  * Previously discussed is 
    * how to better support headers and cookies in Node core. It was discussed that we should not create more work for the core team if we aren’t going to commit to contributing ourselves. That said, we also need to step up in helping on the already existing http related security issues before we start generating more of them.
    * Frameworks were asked to encourage their contributors to look into contributing to Node.js core 
    * Jshttp library has already done a lot of work on these things
    * Breakaways include: appendHeader issue, setCookieHeader discussion, cookie or header parsing
  * Original concern: adding multiple cookie headers is not a straight forward process in Node core.
  * Matteo’s experience: use writeHead. setHeader in http is a mess. Hard to change core. The only way to make something fast was to side step the core implementation and utilize writeHead. 
  * What is the future of header handling in Node core?
  * Remove setHeader?
  * Can we refactor this issue into discussing better header management rather than just adding more methods to core
  * setHeader works well is you are using Node core, but not great for frameworks
  * Can we use MDN header api? (it might be slow)
  * If we can make this fast but remain in spec that would be great improvement for Node core
  * https://github.com/fastify/fastify/pull/813 https://github.com/fastify/fastify/search?q=writeHead&type=Commits
  * If we were to deprecate this lots of documentation and tutorials need to be modified as well
  * Headers are very complicated and have lots of nuances that make it hard to handle _perfectly_ so it may be very hard to implement in core correctly.
  * Do we need something to replace it if we deprecate setHeader in node core?
  * How does this apply to trailers? 
  * Action item: consider adding MDN Headers api to Node core. The MDN api knows about the Header quirks.
* Discuss modules in CITGM #35
  * Previously discussed, nothing worth copying over to here.
  * Express dependencies are not in canary so those would need to be added
  * Would want to test multiple versions
* 'stream' vs 'request' API #19
  * Previously discussed
    * Why aren’t we seeing http2 apps?
    * Many apps terminate at a NGINX layer due to it not being freely available
    * Request for a GraphQL + http3 example
    * Request for better documentation on the benefits of http2/3/etc.
    * Request for better communication on existing http2 apps 
    * Is http3 going to have a compat layer? Do we need to help build one? (ask James)
    * Public outreach to companies on using 
    * When do we stop supporting compat layers?
  * Matteo has more info on compat layer & stream api.
    * Error handling was an issue 
    * Lots of memory leaks
    * Adding the compat layer was what enabled http2 to ship in the first place
  * Implementation of http2 for end users is severely lacking thus there is no reason for frameworks to develop stream based http2 support
  * Major blocker for http3 is because it requires a patched version of OpenSSL
  * Should we put our effort into making compat layers better or making frameworks run on streams? Is either effort worth it right now?
  * We should ask “why people aren’t using http2?”
  * Broader question: what is the cost of maintaining http2 in Node core?
  * https://github.com/nxtedition/node-http2-proxy
  * https://github.com/fastify/fastify-http-proxy
  * https://www.npmjs.com/package/http2-proxy

* docs: join instructions in README.md #4
  * Previously discussed
  * Complete open pr and add other users
