# Node.js  Web Server Framework team Meeting 2023-18-12

## Links

* **Recording**:  
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/web-server-frameworks/issues/92

## Present

* Wes Todd - @wesleytodd 
* Rafael Gonzaga - @RafaelGSS
* Jean Burellier - @sheplu
* Ethan Arrowood - @Ethan-Arrowood
* Marco ippolito - @marco-ippolito
* Paolo Insogna - @ShogunPanda

## Agenda

* Are we satisfied with continuing to be a “team” and running fairly loose?
* What are our top priorities for 2024?
* Milo
* WinterCG Socket API Spec
    * Spec: https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-sockets-api
    * Node.js implementation: https://github.com/Ethan-Arrowood/socket
    * Will be in draft mode until WinterCG becomes apart of an actual standards body (ECMA is under current proposal): https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/58
    * Create `nodejs/socket` repository for Node.js implementation of Cloudflare's Socket API · Issue #826

## Announcements

N/A

### nodejs/web-server-framework

- Jean: Global presentation on the history + discussion during NodeconfEU
    - WG started to focus on Http server, not other part of the stack
    - Paolo: also we discussed other topics like the full http stack (dns, network, …)
- Marco + Paolo: Maybe start working on the new socket API (presented by james during NodeConfEU)
- Wes: global reflection about the name of the Working group. Do we want to rename to englobe a lot more than just HTTP ?
- Ethan: Group started before Undici and some other projects. Primitives needed (and need) to be fixed. Depending on people we can decide on the scope.
    - Better parser
    - Better low level solution to build on top
- Paolo: most of the groups overlap (between net, http…)
- Wes: Team or WG next year? What would be the difference, different spaces ?
- Ethan: Large scope and we should see what we want to be responsible for. Just including HTTP (http1, http2, quic, http3…) is already a really large scope
- Marco: To not talk about the full ecosystem, do we want to focus on “only” the server part ?
- Paolo: WG or team does not really matter. If we can define the interfaces, then all groups can work in parallel
    - Marco: we should restrict the scope
    - Wes: Parallel but with a priority list
- James: What are the baseline problems that need to be addressed where the current core is falling short?
    - Ethan: can we have a better / faster parser? -> Milo
    - Where do we think there is an issue with HTTP core? -> HTTP Parser
- Wes: Plan from 2 years ago
    - Low lever part of nodejs
    - High level part of nodejs
    - Improve the framework users base by adding specific functions to core.
        - Cookies
    - We should be able / need to document link between changes and update to track what can be updated in parallel
- Paolo: Milo is feature complet
    - Following bilbao, capable to be used in webassembly and tried to implement it to undici
    - Working on more performance and then being capable of shipping ! 
    - Nodejs tests suite is already OK
    - Milo would be bringing another language to Node.js so other modules could also be ported?
- Wes: Could we have a standalone library part of Node.js that would provide only the core feature needed to be an HTTP server ? with less dependencies than express or fastify.
    - Exploratory work as we may have to tests all changes
- James: I agree with what Wes is saying about the “vendor” modules. If this group is wanting to somehow improve all of these low level apis (and I classify http as low level), then it shouldn’t try to update in-place the current ones. They are never going to go away. So the goal should be `node:http` and `node:https` still exists, but eventually `node:<new_name_here>` gets added and becomes the way forward
- Rafael: We should do some research and scientific approach to build a foundation and know where we should investigate - not just on “random” part of the project. 
    - With current and accurate benchmarks we can establish a baseline and be able to really compare
- Wes: the group should focus on developer / user experience but also can be used on some performance - we need to balance both
    - Compatibility around http 1 / 2 /3
    - What do the consumers of Node.js want?
    Work with other teams (Next-10 for community feedback)
- Jean: A good parallelisation would be between user experience and performance
    - UX: http stack as this is the main use case for nodejs
    - Performance for “core hidden modules” like dns, net…
- Paolo: New way of working with Node.js and framework, for example request / response is used most of the time on serverless technology (lambda, workers…)
    - Involve WinterCG
- James: I made the “feel at home with req and res” argument early on with Fastify, and I think my position has changed. If there is a more ergonomic API possibility, use this opportunity to implement it
- Marco: Socket is at the core of the http stack, starting from Socket api is a good way to go bottom up
- Ethan: Update on the WinterCG, TC process … and how we can work together
- Wes: From the start we tightly couple the lowest part of the stack to the user level.We should decouple between the levels
    - Low level for performance and standard
    - High level to handle the experience across all user interactions
- Paolo: Following a discussion during NodeConfEu, users don’t need to know about HTTP version, this would be automatically setup depending of the request
- Wes: API session design 


## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Project Calendar**: <https://nodejs.org/calendar>

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.



